---
layout: post
featured: false
covid19: true
list: false
title:  "Outside Wuhan"
categories: 
  - health
image: https://tva1.sinaimg.cn/large/007S8ZIlgy1ge23c2ium4j314w0u0h2q.jpg
---

Yesterday, there were 136,987 close contacts in China, an increase of 21% compared with the previous day. Observing the data changes of close contacts can let us know some potential risks. Judging from the data of the past few days, close contacts are still on the rise, and we still cannot relax. However, with the implementation of "early discovery and early isolation", we can also see that the growth rate of close contacts shows a significant downward trend. This is a good signal. When the growth rate of close contacts starts to show negative growth, it may be a better signal.

### Nine Cities in China Had First Confirmed Cases Yesterday

From the perspective of provincial data, among the provinces with more than 100 diagnoses, Shaanxi Province saw the highest increase in the number of newly diagnosed yesterday, at 60% (63 new diagnoses on January 30; 101 new diagnoses on January 31 people).

Judging from the city data, there are currently 316 cities in the country with confirmed cases, of which 116 cities had no new confirmed cases yesterday. There were 9 cities that found the first confirmed cases yesterday: Chaozhou City, Jincheng City, Ledong County, Anshan City, Fuxin City, Lincang City, Qinhuangdao City, Xinzhou City and Xinjiang.

### It Is Not Recommended to Use Shuanghuanglian to Prevent COVID 19

On the evening of January 31, there was news that Shuanghuanglian could inhibit the new coronavirus. As soon as the news came out, people were snapping up, and Shuanghuanglian oral liquid was quickly sold out.

First of all, inhibition is not prevention. Suppression is to control the condition of the disease by controlling various links of virus replication. If you do not have a virus in your body, there is nothing to be suppressed; if there is a virus in your body that can be suppressed, it means that you have been infected. What else can you prevent if you are infected?

There are four steps to prove that a drug is truly effective: animal experiments, phase I clinical trials, phase II clinical trials, and phase III clinical trials. Generally speaking, you can prove "safe" after completing the first two steps; you can prove "effective" after completing the two steps.
And Shuanghuanglian oral liquid began clinical trials. There is not enough public data to prove that it can inhibit the new coronavirus in humans. In addition, Shuanghuanglian has a lot of evidence of adverse reactions in the past.