---
layout: post
covid19: false
list: true
title:  "How to Identify and deal with Allergic Reactions in the Early Stage?"
categories: 
  - health
image: https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn%3AANd9GcQYfigTxidaSNJxmFCcTwg63cNe_YgmzB57mA-PJ63oQpTP2k6h&usqp=CAU
---

Severe allergic reactions (Anaphylaxis) in children are very common in clinic, involving multiple systems such as digestive tract, respiratory tract, skin and mucous membranes, otolaryngology, etc. This article mainly refers to the main domestic and foreign guidelines, from a clinical perspective, clear how to make early judgments and emergency treatment.

## Severe allergic reaction： Don't just think of anaphylactic shock
European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, EAACI, defined severe allergic reaction: "Serious, life-threatening systemic allergic reaction".

The clinical features are rapid and life-threatening respiratory and circulatory problems, which are not always accompanied by related changes in skin and mucous membranes.

The definition of the Pediatrics Branch of the Chinese Medical Association is: a life-threatening severe syndrome that occurs rapidly within minutes to hours after exposure to allergens, involving two or more organs and (or) systems, and anaphylactic shock can occur in severe cases , Must be given emergency treatment.

The definitions used in the recommendations of the First Aid Guide for Severe Allergic Reactions in China are:

Sudden, severe and life-threatening allergic reactions after the body is exposed to allergens. Its main clinical feature is the rapid occurrence of life-threatening respiratory and / or circulatory problems, and in most cases, symptoms of the skin and mucous membrane system.

It can be seen that although the definitions are not the same, the common characteristics are: systemic clinical emergency, which involves at least 2 systems or organs, is life-threatening, requires urgent treatment, and is not necessarily accompanied by skin and mucous membrane symptoms.

Through the concept we can also conclude: severe allergic reaction ≠ anaphylactic shock. The former concept includes the latter, while the latter emphasizes the abnormality of the circulatory system. Once the circulatory system is involved, reprocessing may delay the rescue. In order to improve the timeliness of rescue, the concept of severe allergic reaction is earlier than the anaphylactic shock rescue threshold, emphasizing early recognition and treatment.

## Severe allergic reactions progress rapidly
After exposure to allergens, allergic reactions usually occur within 2 hours, food allergies usually occur within 30 minutes, and allergic reactions occur more quickly after injection of drugs or insect bites. In a series of life-threatening cases of severe allergic reactions, the median time from food allergies, insect venom allergies, and injection allergies to the occurrence of severe allergic reactions was 30, 15 and 5 minutes, respectively. Therefore, it is especially important to ask about the medical history in detail (food intake, drug application, outdoor activities, mosquito bites, etc.).

## Allergic reactions can affect multiple system organs

A severe allergic reaction is a systemic syndrome involving multiple systems and / or organs. A 2012 patient study found:

- The skin is the most vulnerable organ (84%);

- This is followed by cardiovascular symptoms (72%) and airway symptoms (68%).

Another item of data for a total of 1865 patients [5] shows:

- Skin involvement up to 90% (urticaria and angioedema 62% -90%, skin redness 45% -55%, no itching rash 2% -5%);

- Respiratory symptoms up to 60% (dyspnea, asthma 45% -50%, upper airway angioedema 50% -60%, rhinitis 15% -20%);

- Circulatory system (hypotension, dizziness, syncope, excessive sweating) 30% -35%;

- Digestive system (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain) 25% -30%;

- Others: headache 5% -8%, posterior sternal pain 4% -5%, convulsions 1% -2%.

However, based on the limited data of children, children's skin performance should be rarer than adults.

Clinicians should pay attention to the following symptoms:

- Digestive tract: spastic abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, etc .;

- Skin and mucous membranes: sudden systemic urticaria, itching, blushing, swelling of lips-tongue-uvula, etc

- Respiratory system: wheezing, asthma, laborious breathing, continuous severe cough, cyanosis, etc .;

- Cardiovascular system: low blood pressure, arrhythmia, syncope, etc.

Once one of the above symptoms occurs, serious allergic reactions should be considered and urgent treatment is required.


## Criteria for diagnosis and classification of severe allergic reactions
When the symptoms meet any of the following three criteria, the patient is most likely to have an acute severe allergic reaction.

1. The disease has an acute attack (within a few minutes to several hours), with skin and / or mucosal system symptoms, such as rash, itching or flushing, redness, numbness, etc., and any of the following system symptoms:

	- A Respiratory symptoms, such as dumb tone, chest tightness, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing, wheezing, bronchospasm, cyanosis, peak expiratory flow, hypoxemia, etc .;

	- B. Decreased blood pressure, or related end organ dysfunction, such as numbness, hypotonia, syncope, incontinence, etc.

2. After the patient is exposed to the suspected allergen, the following symptoms of 2 or more quickly occur within a few minutes to several hours

	- A Skin and mucous membrane tissue symptoms, such as various rashes, itching or flushing, redness and / or numbness of lips and tongue, etc.

	- B. Respiratory symptoms, such as chest tightness, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing, wheezing, bronchospasm, cyanosis, peak expiratory flow, hypoxemia, etc .;

	- C Blood pressure drop or end organ function involvement, such as hypotonia, syncope, incontinence, etc.

	- D Continuous gastrointestinal symptoms, such as abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, etc.
3. After exposure to known allergens, the blood pressure drops within a few minutes to several hours.

	- A Infants and children: Systolic blood pressure is lower than the normal value of the corresponding age. ＜ 1 year old, systolic blood pressure <70; 1 ～ 10 years old, systolic blood pressure ＜ (70 + 2 × age); 11 ～ 17 years old,

	- B Adult: The systolic blood pressure is less than 90 mmHg, or more than 30% lower than the baseline value.


## How to judge the severity?

Class I: only skin and mucosal system symptoms and gastrointestinal system symptoms, stable hemodynamics and stable breathing;

Grade II: Obvious respiratory symptoms or decreased blood pressure;

Grade III: Any of the following symptoms: unconsciousness, drowsiness, loss of consciousness, severe bronchospasm and / or laryngeal edema, cyanosis, severe blood pressure drop (systolic blood pressure <80 mmHg or> 40% decrease from baseline)

Class IV: Heartbeat and / or respiratory arrest occurs.

##  First aid measures
Patients with severe allergic reactions need immediate assessment of respiratory and circulatory dysfunction and exposed environment, and timely treatment. Most of the patients' deaths are due to upper and lower airway and / or cardiovascular involvement, so it is important to strengthen the management of these clinical manifestations.

Intramuscular injection of epinephrine is a first-line treatment for severe allergic reactions. Once breathing stops and cardiac arrest occurs, cardiopulmonary resuscitation should be performed immediately.

Preparation: Try to get rid of possible allergens and lie on your back. If the patient has vomiting, change the head to one side lying position and remove the foreign body.

### First-line medication:
Epinephrine is currently the drug of choice, and all patients who diagnose or suspect a severe allergic reaction should immediately use it. The specific usage is as follows:

**Intramuscular injection** : position mid-lateral thigh

Dosage: Use 1 mg / ml (1: 1000) of epinephrine at 0.01 mg / kg body weight, with a single maximum dose not exceeding 0.5 mg. The administration can be repeated at least every 5 minutes. There may be transient paleness, palpitations, headaches, etc. within the safe dose range.

If an epinephrine pen is used, the applied dose is 7.5-25 kg, 0.15 mg / time; 25-30 kg, 0.3 mg / time.

Intravenous injection: For patients with Grade IV reactions that have or are about to undergo heartbeat and / or respiratory arrest; for patients who have Grade III reactions and have established venous access within the ICU / surgical period and are being monitored. Epinephrine can be injected intravenously.

Single dose of intravenous adrenaline:

Grade Ⅲ reaction: Children over 14 years old and adults 0.1-0.2 mg, children ≤ 14 years old 2-10ug / kg;

Grade Ⅳ: Children over 14 years old and adults 0.5-1 mg, children ≤ 14 years old 0.01-0.02 mg / kg; concentration: 0.1 mg / ml (1:10 000), about 1 ml will be available: 1 mg of epinephrine injection is diluted 10 times; after 3-5 minutes, the effect is not satisfactory, it can be repeated.

**Intravenous drip**

For patients with grade II and III reactions, after intravenous or intramuscular injection of epinephrine 2-3 times, or after ICU / surgery has established a venous access and is monitored during the operation, intravenous adrenaline can be infused; for patients with grade IV reactions, When symptoms improve but not completely relieved, intravenous drip may be considered.

The rate of intravenous infusion of epinephrine is 3-20ug / kg / h; the concentration is 0.1-0. 004 mg / ml (1: 10 000-1: 250 000), that is, the existing 1 ml: 1 mg specification Epinephrine injection is diluted 10-250 times.

### Second-line treatment:
**oxygen**

High-flow oxygen inhalation through the mask is suitable for all patients. Regardless of whether there are respiratory symptoms, oxygen therapy is required, which is the second most important treatment after epinephrine. Usually 100% pure oxygen is used, 6-10L / min. Through blood oxygen monitoring, the ideal oxygen saturation is 94-96%.

**Fluid resuscitation**

Mainly used for patients with unstable circulatory system, the drug is 0.9% sodium chloride solution. Adult patients with low blood pressure can be intravenously infused with 5-10 ml / kg in the first 5 minutes, and 1-2L of liquid is quickly infused; pediatric patients can achieve intravenous injection of 30 ml / kg within 1 hour. Or directly choose 20 ml / kg and adjust according to the patient's condition.

Inhalation of short-acting β2 receptor agonists: Patients with bronchospasm, dyspnea, and wheezing can inhale short-acting β2 receptor agonists. If there is no effect after 5 minutes of application, epinephrine must be applied in time.

**Glucocorticoid**

Glucocorticoids can be used as a second-line treatment for severe allergic reactions. Oral or intravenous glucocorticoids may reduce the risk of biphasic or delayed phase reactions. If the patient has persistent bronchospasm, consider nebulized inhalation or intravenous glucocorticoid. However, it was only listed as a third-line drug in the 2014 version of the EAACI guidelines, on the grounds that the onset is slow and the efficacy of reducing the occurrence of biphasic reactions or delayed phase reactions is uncertain. High-dose budesonide nebulization is recommended only in patients with upper airway edema and wheezing.

The usual recommended dose is 1-2 mg / kg of methylprednisolone or other hormone equivalent, the maximum dose is 125 mg / time, and patients who are relieved with epinephrine do not need to use glucocorticoids.

**Antihistamines**

H1 receptor antagonists are mainly used to relieve skin and mucous membrane symptoms and are not used as rescue drugs. Patients with grade Ⅰ response can be given orally, and patients with grade Ⅱ response and above can be given orally or intravenously after receiving adrenaline but this is the case. This usage is controversial. The American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology (ACAAI) believes that the use of epinephrine does not require antihistamines if it is relieved. When used in combination to relieve severe allergic symptoms, only sedative antihistamines can be used intravenously. The dose of diphenhydramine for intravenous injection is 25-50 mg for adults and 1 mg / kg for children. The maximum dose does not exceed 50 mg and is not less than 10-15 minutes for intravenous injection. In the oral route, cetirizine is more effective than diphenhydramine and chlorpheniramine. Ranitidine can be injected intravenously or intramuscularly when H1 and H2 are used together.

However, the 2014 version of the EAACI guidelines are only listed as third-line drugs. Although such drugs are usually used in allergic reactions, because the skin manifestations in severe allergic reactions are usually not fatal, and the relief of skin symptoms is precisely the main role of antihistamine drugs, intravenous antihistamine drugs may cause hypotension . However, the combined application of H1 and H2 receptor antagonists is more effective than H1 receptor antagonists alone.

**other**

Glucagon may not respond well to epinephrine, especially in patients who have used beta blockers.

Dopamine can be used for the uncontrollable hypotension that occurs after taking epinephrine patients.

Reference:
http://pediatr.dxy.cn/

Muraro A, Roberts G, Worm M, et al. Anaphylaxis: guidelines from the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology[J]. Allergy,2014,69:1026-1045.

Worm M, Edenharter G, Ruef F, et al. Symptom proile and risk factors of anaphylaxis in Central Europe[J]. Allergy, 2012,67:691-698.

Lieberman P, Nicklas RA, Oppenheimer J, et al. Anaphylaxis--a practice parameter update 2015[J].Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol, 2015,115:341-384.

Lieberman P, Nicklas RA, Oppenheimer J ,et al.The diagnosis and management of anaphylaxis practice parameter:2010 update[J].J Allergy Clin Immunol, 2010,126(3):477-480.

