---
layout: post
featured: false
covid19: true
list: false
title:  "Vulcan Hill Hospital is in Use Today"
categories: 
  - health
image: http://www.xinhuanet.com/politics/2020-02/03/1125523730_15806620493401n.jpg
---

On January 2 and 3, Wuhan City announced that it will establish the Vulcan Hill Hospital in accordance with the model of Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital to centrally treat patients with new coronavirus pneumonia.

The entire project took 10 days. Yesterday, Vulcan Hill Hospital was officially delivered, and it will be put into use today.

Vulcan Hill Hospital has a construction area of ​​34,000 square meters and 1,000 beds. A medical team of 1,400 people has undertaken the treatment task. It refers to the model of Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital. It does not set up outpatient clinics, but only treats and diagnoses patients.

According to the “Usage of Beds in Fixed Hospitals of the Whole City” issued by the Wuhan Municipal Health and Construction Commission, as of February 2nd 23: 00, the city has opened 7,259 beds and 7332 beds in use, which is in an overloaded state.

In other words, the 1,000 beds in Vulcan Mountain will carry 1/8 of all beds in Wuhan.

At the same time, the centralized treatment of confirmed patients and the control of the source of infection will also help prevent the spread of the epidemic.

Looking back on April 2003, in order to effectively control the SARS epidemic, Beijing once completed the Xiaotangshan Hospital in 7 days. Within two months, Xiaotangshan Hospital admitted 1/7 of the domestic SARS cases. In 1 1 day, 672 SARS patients eventually recovered and discharged 672, while none of the 183 medical staff involved in treatment and care were infected. Twenty days after the Xiaotangshan Hospital opened, the number of new cases of SARS in Beijing quickly dropped to single digits, which was an important turning point in the SARS outbreak that year.

It is hoped that the Vulcan Hill Hospital will be put into use today, which can also be a turning point in this epidemic.