---
layout: post
featured: false
covid19: false
list: true
title:  "Men-specific cancer, early detection is less than 30%"
categories: 
  - health
image: https://tva1.sinaimg.cn/large/007S8ZIlgy1geks1l1qc1j30p00dw74x.jpg
---
> Worldwide, the incidence of prostate cancer has ranked second among all malignant tumors in men. Especially in the United States, prostate cancer has surpassed lung cancer and has become the first malignant tumor in men. According to data from the National Cancer Center, the incidence of male prostate cancer in China reached 9.8 per 100,000 in 2014, ranking sixth among all male malignancies. The mortality rate reached 4.22 per 100,000, ranking 9th among all male malignancies. 

The prostate is a unique organ of men, located under the bladder, and the prostate fluid it secretes is one of the components that make up semen. Prostate cancer is a malignant tumor unique to men. Early prostate cancer can be cured by radical surgery to achieve nearly 100% clinical cure. However, most of the prostate cancer at this stage has no obvious symptoms or signs, and it is often difficult to find. When the cancer is enlarged enough to cause difficulty urinating, hematuria, or transfer to the bone and cause pain, most of the disease has already reached the advanced stage, and the opportunity for surgery is lost.

Nearly 91% of newly diagnosed cases in the United States are clinically limited prostate cancer. Through radical surgery or radiotherapy, the 5-year survival rate is close to 100%. However, in China, less than 30% of patients with clinical limitations, that is, less than one-third of patients are found early. Most of the remaining patients are locally advanced or with multiple metastases. Even after standardized treatment, the results are often very unsatisfactory.

## Check when you are older than 50 years old

So, what kind of people are more likely to get prostate cancer?

Satisfying one of the following is a high-risk group:
- Men over 50 years of age;
- Be older than 45 years old and have a family history of prostate cancer;
- For men between 40 and 45 years old, previous physical examination revealed that total serum PSA was greater than 1.0 ng / mL.

The age of high incidence of prostate is 65-80 years old. If you are a male over 50, you should be screened regularly. In addition, if one of your immediate family members (brother or father) has prostate cancer, your risk of prostate cancer will more than double. If more than 2 immediate family members have prostate cancer, this risk will increase to 5 to 11 times. Therefore, if you have a prostate cancer patient in your family, you should also add prostate cancer to your vigilant object in time.

## Effective screening: PSA test + anal finger test

The majority of prostate cancer patients in China are found to be advanced, which is related to the lack of standardized screening. For the detection of prostate cancer, there is currently a clear screening plan, and it is recommended that high-risk groups do PSA examination and anal finger examination.

PSA, also known as prostate-specific antigen, is a protein produced by the prostate, which is mainly present in semen and has a very low concentration in the blood. When the structure of the prostate is destroyed by cancerous cells, a large amount of PSA will enter the blood and be detected.

PSA testing is also a more humane screening method in cancer screening, and problems can be discovered through blood testing. Because prostate cancer occurs mostly in the peripheral zone of the prostate, anal digital examination is also an important method for early detection of prostate cancer.

The typical manifestation of prostate cancer is that it can touch hard nodules of the prostate, with unclear borders and no tenderness. If the prostate nodules are not touched, the possibility of prostate cancer cannot be ruled out, and it is necessary to make a comprehensive judgment by the doctor in combination with PSA and imaging examination. Early screening, early detection, and standardized treatment are our most powerful weapons against prostate cancer.

## FAQ

> Q: Is it true that masturbation or frequent sex life can cause prostate cancer?

There have been some controversies on this issue in the past, but most studies on the relationship between ejaculation frequency and prostate cancer are currently beneficial or irrelevant. Moderate masturbation or sexual life will not increase the risk of prostate cancer. There is no need to have a psychological burden because of "sex".

> Q: If I have frequent urination and urgency, may I have prostate cancer?

For young people, frequent urination and urgency may just be microbial infections or aseptic inflammation of the urinary system, so go to the hospital for treatment in time. If they are older elders, they should still receive standardized treatment. Frequent urinary urgency in the elderly is mostly benign prostatic hyperplasia, which can be effectively relieved and controlled by drugs or surgery, but it is still necessary to be vigilant and screen for PSA.

> Q: Can supplementing vitamin E and selenium prevent prostate cancer?

Vitamin E and selenium do not affect the incidence of prostate cancer. No health food can help you prevent prostate cancer. If you really want to talk about the impact of diet on prostate cancer, you must mention alcohol and fried foods. Regular alcohol consumption is one of the recognized high-risk factors for prostate cancer morbidity and mortality. The intake of fried foods will also increase the probability of men suffering from prostate cancer. Drinking less or no alcohol and eating less fried foods may be more useful than eating health products.

