---
layout: post
featured: false
covid19: true
list: false
title:  "The Epidemic Inflection Point Has Not Yet Appeared in China"
categories: 
  - health
image: https://tva1.sinaimg.cn/large/007S8ZIlgy1ge12fuecz0j317p0u00wy.jpg
---

> The newly diagnosed and suspected curves have fluctuated in recent days. Is there an inflection point?

We temporarily speculate not. The surge in the number of suspected diagnoses on the 26th has other special reasons besides the original transmission factors. Due to the rapid availability of kits in the Wuhan area and faster testing methods, a large number of fever cases that cannot be diagnosed early can be included in the suspected confirmed cases through the initial screening.Then on the second day, many of these suspected cases passed the review to become confirmed cases, which brought a small peak in the number of diagnoses on 27th.

If we remove the two outliers of suspected cases newly added on the 26th and newly confirmed diagnoses on the 27th, both curves will be in a relatively steady rise. **Therefore, we believe that based on the current data, we cannot see the outbreaks in China and the inflection points nationwide.**

> What kind of epidemic inflection point can indicate the success of this battle?

The number of new cases fell within 2 weeks. Control the epidemic in Wuhan within two months. In the next two months, there were basically no sporadic cases in major provinces and cities. WHO stopped its high-risk assessment of China.

> Today, the World Health Organization (WHO) said: There is currently no evidence that pets such as cats and dogs are infected with new coronaviruses.

I hope my friends who have cats and dogs in their homes will throw away the cats and dogs in the house without hearing the rumors. Although there is no evidence that does not mean that it will never be infected, if pets stay at home, they are less likely to become virus carriers. If you take them out, although they may not be infected, they may become viral adsorption vectors. Please don't abandon pets at will, and don't abandon the friends who keep pets around you.