---
layout: post
featured: false
covid19: true
list: false
title:  "Spring is Coming"
categories: 
  - health
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1581397421772-27b391657751?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&auto=format&fit=crop&w=800&q=60
---

If we only look at the national death data, we will find that the number of deaths has been on the rise. However, if we look at Hubei Province and other regions separately, we will find that the number of deaths outside Hubei has been relatively stable, with the number of deaths increasing by 1 in the last three days.

When we go to see the case fatality rate, we can more clearly see that the case fatality rate outside Hubei is not high. On the contrary, the number of cured people across the country is increasing, and the first case in many provinces has been cured and discharged. This also brought us greater confidence in defeating the epidemic.

### What does the mortality rate mean?

According to data released by the National Health Commission, as of February 3 to 24, the country has reported a total of 20,438 confirmed cases and 425 deaths, with a mortality rate of approximately 2.1%.

However, a research paper on the first 41 cases published in The Lancet on January 24 shows that a total of 6 of the 41 patients died, and the case fatality rate reached 15%.

The fatality rate has dropped significantly because we have found effective treatments? In fact, it is not necessarily.

Under normal circumstances, in the early stages of the epidemic, we will be more likely to focus on critically ill patients, resulting in a naturally high mortality rate. However, as the situation gradually stabilizes, more and more patients with mild disease will be diagnosed, and the case fatality rate will also decrease, reaching a relatively stable value.

This time is no exception.

From the current data, the mortality rate of pneumonia is higher than that of ordinary influenza, but it is much lower than SARS and MERS, and also lower than H7N9 and H5N1.

We can compare the mortality of some major epidemics in recent years:

- Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS): 9.6%
- Avian Influenza A H7N9: 27% 
- Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS): 36% 
- Avian Influenza A H5N1: 53%

(Data source: UpToDate clinical consultant)

In general, the mortality rate of pneumonia is lower than the previous outbreaks. As long as there is no major change in the mortality rate, even if the number of diagnoses is still rising, we can still be cautiously optimistic about the epidemic.

Not to despise or carelessly, but also not anxious or panic, is our correct attitude towards the epidemic.