---
layout: post
featured: false
covid19: false
list: true
title:  "Antipyretic treatment, ibuprofen V.S. acetaminophen?"
categories: 
  - health
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1580917922805-f8f57e08c0ae?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&auto=format&fit=crop&w=800&q=60
---

Ibuprofen and acetaminophen are currently the most commonly used antipyretics, but there are obvious differences between the two in terms of molecular structure, mechanism of action, contraindications, etc., and their use in different occasions has advantages and disadvantages.

So when should ibuprofen be used and when should acetaminophen be used? This is a question worth exploring.

## A table summary: the difference between the two antipyretics

First, let's understand the difference between acetaminophen and ibuprofen through a table:

<table class="table table-bordered table-striped table-condensed">
	<tr><td></td>
		<td>Mechanism</td>
		<td>For people</td>
		<td>Dosage</td>
	</tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Acetaminophen</td>
		<td>By inhibiting cyclooxygenase, it selectively inhibits the synthesis of prostaglandins in the hypothalamic body temperature regulation center, leading to the expansion of peripheral blood vessels and sweating to achieve antipyretic effect.</td>
		<td>Children of three months or more and adults</td>
		<td>10-15mg / kg. Take once every 4-6 hours, not more than 4 times within 24 hours, the maximum daily dose is 2g</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Ibuprofen</td>
		<td>By inhibiting the synthesis of hypothalamic prostaglandins, while stimulating vasopressin and melanocyte estrogen in the posterior pituitary, the heat dissipation process is increased, and the temperature control point of the body temperature is moved down to achieve the effect of fever reduction</td>
		<td>Children of six months or more and adults</td>
		<td>10mg / kg. Take once every 6 hours, the maximum daily dose is 2.4g</td>
    </tr>
</table>
  

## How to choose medicine in the following situations?

1. Dysmenorrhea: ibuprofen

	Women's dysmenorrhea is divided into primary and secondary. Most of the women's dysmenorrhea are primary dysmenorrhea without organic lesions. During menstruation, a large amount of prostaglandins can cause excessive contraction of uterine smooth muscle and contraction of blood vessels, resulting in uterine ischemia and hypoxia.

	Therefore, dysmenorrhea should choose ibuprofen which inhibits prostaglandins.

2. Headache: acetaminophen

	Paracetamol is effective for both migraine and tension headaches. Ibuprofen has no obvious effect on tension headaches, and acetaminophen works faster.

3. Rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, toothache and earache related to inflammation: ibuprofen

	Ibuprofen has an anti-inflammatory effect, and acetaminophen, as a weak cyclooxygenase inhibitor, cannot inhibit the activation of neutrophils, so it does not have an anti-inflammatory effect.

4. For those with underlying diseases

	(1) Those with liver disease: Ibuprofen is preferred

	(2) Asthma, gastrointestinal ulcer, heart disease, hypertension, diarrhea, vomiting: preferably acetaminophen

	(3) There is kidney disease: you should consult a doctor and follow the doctor's instructions. (Both ibuprofen and acetaminophen's drug instructions specifically indicate that renal insufficiency should be used with caution)

