---
layout: post
featured: false
covid19: true
list: false
title:  "A New Possible Transmitted Method of COVID 19"
categories: 
  - health
image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1547981609-4b6bfe67ca0b?ixlib=rb-1.2.1&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&auto=format&fit=crop&w=800&q=60
---

On the evening of February 1, the Shenzhen Third People's Hospital was interviewed and said that the researchers of the hospital found "new coronavirus positive" in the stools of some patients diagnosed with new coronary pneumonia, indicating that there may be live virus in the stool. The authoritative medical journal "New England Journal of Medicine" (NEJM) also published the first case of a patient with successfully cured new pneumonia in the United States. It is mentioned in the article that the feces of the patients have also been tested positive for new coronavirus.

what does this mean? We sorted out several related questions and answered them.

### Does the new coronavirus in feces have a risk of infecting people?

Yes. If the infected person or the virus carrier does not wash their hands after going to the toilet, or the feces are on the clothes, they may spread the virus.

### How long can the new coronavirus survive in the feces? 

Currently unknown. For common viruses, they live longer in feces, ranging from a few days to more than a week. For example, under the condition of 4 degrees, African swine fever virus is still infectious in feces for 8.48 days.

### Is there a risk of spreading through the dung? 

Don't worry too much. Some studies believe that the digestive tract may be one of the ways of new coronavirus infection. But it has not been confirmed.

Wu Zunyou, chief expert in epidemiology of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said in an interview: "At present, the new coronavirus is only detected in the feces of patients, but whether it means the spread of fecal mouth needs further scientific confirmation. The main route of transmission, as a respiratory infectious disease, is still dominated by fly and contact transmission.